>> The world is, indeed, in
an important transitional era.
Technological advancement,
globalization in business,
and globalization in the media
and throughout the internet
are taking us rapidly into
unprecedented opportunities
and challenges.
We're in a period of
high-speed transformation,
and everything and
everybody is affected by it.
Exciting new research
is showing us
that we're all connected
through a vast web
of energetic connections
that link all living systems.
>> So our research focuses
on really three spheres--
personal coherence,
social, and global.
In Global Coherence,
we're really
looking at the interaction
or the communication,
really, between humanity,
all of us humans,
and the Earth itself.
So we've installed these
ultra-sensitive magnetometers
all around the Earth
that are designed
to measure what are called
the resonant frequencies,
or the moving fields or
the vibrating fields,
in the Earth's magnetic fields.
So what we're seeing here is
that our hearts and brains
are operating at
the same frequency
as the magnetic fields, the
resonating frequency, of Earth
itself.
But we have the
basic understanding
of how our hearts and brains
can be transferring information
back and forth between
all of us humans
and the Earth's field itself.
So what this implies is
that what we think and feel,
but especially what we
feel inside, our emotions,
don't just stay inside of us.
We know they radiate out
into the field environment
through our harsh
magnetic fields.
But what we believe here,
and what I'm suggesting,
is that the harsh magnetic
fields connect with
and couple to the Earth's
vibrating magnetic field.
So it's a globally
distributed energetic effect.
>> So it's a pretty
cool research.
It's amazing research,
and it opens a door
for understanding ourselves
in a different new way.
The big deal for me is this.
It begins to show us that,
in fact, we are not alone,
that we are all in
this together, all
in this game of life together.
Not as separate as we
perceive sometimes.
So I think that's the real
beauty of the Global Coherence
research.
The science is amazing.
It's intriguing,
it's interesting.
But at the end of the day, what
I want people to understand
from it is we are not alone.
>> As a highly connected
global society,
we are moving rapidly toward
having to make important
choices that will affect our
present security and the lives
of future generations.
But the very challenges
of this time period
also present opportunities
for a significant shift
in human consciousness.
>> Heart-based living is when
one learns to really align with
the intuitive guidance of
their heart and bring that
into day-to-day life
and the choices we make.
One of the key aspects
of heart-based living
is that we become more
inclusive in our thoughts,
our feelings about
others, and our behaviors.
>> There are so many heart-based
qualities that have been valued
by countries, nations,
cultures, all over the world.
And there is a good
reason for that.
They really create more
connection with something
larger with who we really are.
And they allow us to have
more flow, creativity,
and fulfillment in life.
>> You know, heart-base living
is really just how we walk
in the world.
It's just really a way of
being, a way in which we
carry ourselves, a
way in which we make
a contribution to the benefit of
ourselves, to those around us,
and to the world itself.
>> As our heart, mind, and
emotions come into coherent
alignment, this strengthens
the heart power that supports
our individual and
collective intentions.
If we can build the habit of
practicing these techniques,
we will be able to unlock
our higher potentials
and become more of
who we truly are.
With genuine practice, we
can find within our heart
the answers and directions for
the next steps for ourselves
and our global society.
With all that's going
on in the world today,
and in our own lives,
it's important to have
more compassionate
latitude for ourselves
and each other, in our
workplaces, with family,
or life's general challenges.
Compassionate latitude
helps us dissolve judgments
and separation between
people, allowing us easier
access to new solutions.
Here's how to get started.
We invite you to try to
apply what you've learned
for the next several weeks.
See what changes you experience.
Creating a simple practice
plan that feels right to you
would be an important next step.
Here are some suggestions.
Use the Quick
Coherence technique
to prep before a potentially
stressful meeting
to maintain your
composure and connect
with your heart's guidance.
Use it after a stressful
situation to reset
and reconnect with your
heart to better manage
the effects of stress
and build resilience.
Use Attitude Breathing
to help shift
your inner weather, your
emotional state, at any time.
Practice Attitude
Breathing to shift
to more positive emotional
states during the day.
Use the Freeze-Frame technique
to gain more intuitive clarity
for making decisions
big and small,
or to access more creativity
and insight at any time.
Do the technique as
a written exercise,
as you did in this
program, when you can.
Finally, and just as important,
practice the Heart Lock-In
technique for five minutes
or more at a time that's
convenient to you.
Most people find it
easiest first thing
in the morning before work
to set the tone for your day
and create a habit that
fits your lifestyle,
like brushing your teeth.
At the end of the day,
it's actually very simple.
It's about whether you are in
connection with your heart's
intelligence or not.
And when you find yourself
out, how do you get back?
The choice is yours.
And now you have
the tools to help.
>> I wake up and the very
first thing I do now,
and this is something
I learned to do,
is I just connect to my
heart for even a moment.
It might be 10 seconds,
it might be 30 seconds,
not ever over a minute.
I just sit up in
bed and let that be
the starting point to my day.
And I get up and get the
kids ready for school
and get them off to school.
And then I sit down
and I do 10 minutes
of connecting to my heart.
I do a Heart Lock-In.
But it doesn't really
matter what it's called.
I just find that
place in myself that
is that deeper place
in myself where
I can feel that sense of love.
And I kind of look at
it like I'm filling up
a gas tank for the day.
And I spend about 10
minutes doing that.
And it's just filling that
battery or that gas tank.
And what I realized is that
when I do that every day,
it carries over.
I have better days.
My days just get better.
It's almost like it creates
this reservoir that I
can tap into through the day.
And it sets the
tone for the day.
>> The HeartMath techniques
that I use on an everyday basis
would be, when I'm
talking to you right now,
I'm doing my HeartMath.
And just doing it right now,
in this moment, using my skill.
Because by doing that, it allows
me to be present, centered,
and focused, and focus on you.
Because one of the questions
that we get all the time, which
is the absolute kiss
of death, I want
to take my game
to the next level.
They'll say, I'm here.
Why are you here?
I want to take my game
to the next level.
And so that means
that they're trying.
They're trying to get
to that next step.
Yes, we want to get
players to the next step
to be able to improve.
But the way you get there is
by standing on the plateau,
by doing the work, and
continuing to do the work.
And as you continue
to do the work,
one day you're up
on the next plateau.
It just happens.
>> One of the key things
HeartMath is doing to help
usher in heart-based living
and a new era of human
consciousness is really the
tools and techniques that
we've developed.
The knowledge that
the heart is an access
place to higher wisdom, courage,
and increased intelligence
has been around for millennia.
And it's the central teaching
of every major religion
on the earth.
But it's come to be
seen as a metaphor.
And what our research is showing
is it's not just a metaphor.
But the heart really
is an access point
to our larger self that can
bring in that intelligence
of another dimension.
>> And as more people do
that and come together,
it's going to draw in
a whole new awareness,
and what we call heart
intelligence says the next
level of human understanding,
of human evolution
or consciousness.
And I see it happening.
There is more and more
events, global events,
more people wanting to
connect, more people
realizing they're lonely and
that something has to change.
So this extreme pendulum
swing will come back,
and it will help people move
into this new world of heart
awareness and
heart-based living.
>> In the program, you've been
learning tools and techniques,
new understandings, new methods,
all underpinned with scientific
research.
Now what do you do?
Well, you have a framework
you can use to practice.
You can learn to practice tuning
into your heart's intelligence,
to accessing the wisdom and
the intuition that it provides.
And then using it to sort of
navigate this wild adventure
that we call life.
That's what this
system that you've
been learning throughout this
course can really offer you.
And as you begin to
practice, it will get easier.
There'll be more
of a flow to it.
It'll come naturally.
Moment to moment, day to
day will become different.
And over time it creates
a new and very different
experience of life itself.
So my heart wish to
you is that you'll
take what you've learned, you'll
put it into your daily life
in a pragmatic, practical
way that makes sense to you,
you'll learn to
listen to and follow
the magnificent intuitive
presence of your heart.
>> It's a process of
self-discovery and awakening.
Thank you for listening.
As you can see, this
is only the beginning.
The first step to a
new life as we fade out
old ways of being and
experience more harmony,
kindness, compassion.
A new awareness and sense
of fulfillment inside you
waiting to unfold.
Now it's up to you.
And please, if you ever feel
down, frustrated, or confused,
don't hesitate to
know, I'll be here.
I have always been here,
and I will always be here.
Please don't forget me.
[MUSIC PLAYING]